From Hanselman it's dot
com. It's Hansel minutes. Oh,
weekly discussion with web developer
and technologist Scott Hanselman. This
is Lawrence Ryan announcing show number
three 81 recorded live Thursday,
July 18, 2013. Support for
Hansel minutes is provided by
Tellerik offering the best in
developer tools and support online@telerik.com.
And by Franklin is.net makers
of gesture. Pack a powerful
gesture, recording and recognition system
for Microsoft connect for windows
developers details. Add gesture, PA
k.com. In this episode, Scott
talks with Pete Brown about
the upcoming windows 8.1 update.
Hi, this is Scott Hanselman.
This is another episode of
Hansel minutes and I've got
Pete Brown on the phone.
How are you, Pete? Good.
How are you, Scott? I'm
good. I'm good. I've installed
windows 8.1 on my surface
RT and on one of
my laptops and I got
to say it is 0.1
better. It really is. I
mean that sincerely, it makes
the RT usable. Yeah. I
mean, it's, it really does
help a lot there. I,
I think it's better than
0.1 better, but you and
I could debate that out
windows 8.7. Yeah. It's at
least a 0.5 better or
whatever, but I like that
it's only 0.1. Cause it
gives us room for four
more points. There could be
a point too. Right, right,
right, right. But it's not
like a service pack, right.
It's not like an SP
one. It's it's quite a
bit more than that. Definitely.
I definitely agree with that.
It's it's not just a
bunch of fixes and frankly,
it's kinda like the way
the Mac operating system upgrades
are. They, they come out
and they say, you know,
snow tiger or whatever has
got a hundred new features,
you know? And I'm still
discovering little things, little features
in 8.1 little corners of
the operating system where stuff
is new. What's a 0.1
of an animal. Like what's
a 0.1 of a tiger
or something like that. I
don't know. I don't know.
Like there's a tiger then
there's a white tiger. So
snow leopard and snow leopard.
Right, right. Okay. So I
guess I could do different
colors. Well, it's, you know,
it's improved, right? Cause there's
no level, it looks cooler.
Yeah. I mean, so like
on, on windows eight one,
you know how we usually
do multiple service packs and
stuff on the operating system.
But the like a lot
of people don't realize that
the service packs are done
by a different engineering team.
Right. I think they're like
sustained engineering or something, but
this 8.1 is done by
all the same people who
did eight. So it's, you
know, right from the core
operating system guys, which is
part of the point I
wanted to make is that
it makes it a real
next version of the system.
And I guess if we
just use names, nobody knew
people would just think of
it as the next name.
But so that's why I
think it is more than
just a 0.1 on there.
I see. So Fixes come
from the fixes group and
features come from them. I
mean the main yeah, yeah,
yeah. Okay. That's cool. I
noticed that this, there is,
there is, I was going
to say the start buttons
back, but I wouldn't say
that a start button is
back. Yup. Yeah. And when
you click on it, it
goes to the start screen.
It does. And I don't
know if you've tried this
yet, but if you change
your start screens background to
be the same as your
desktop wallpaper, like a lot
of that context switch that
everybody talked about. And that
honestly, I never thought was
a big issue until I
saw the fix for it
kind of goes away because
now it looks like something
that's just overlaying your desktop
as opposed to, you know,
bringing you out to a
different screen. So the start
menu pops up, but the
start screen, there I go
again, there is no start
menu, Right? I mean, it's,
it's not a start menu,
so we have the start
screen, but then there's also
the, the magical windows X.
Right. I assume you, of
all people would probably know
about that one. So when,
when anyone is upset about
windows before I tell them
to like, quit, just push
windows X And tell me
if you're, you know, you're
still ready to quit. Right.
I mean, so we added
the shutdown stuff there. So
it always had the, like
the control panel and updates
and a bunch of other
things there. But now at
least you can shut down
there cause you know, the
windows eight, I think they
assume that everybody would just
hit the power button on
their computer. But I like
never really do that. Well,
you know, I either close
the lid or on my
desktop, I always shut down
from a menu. And so
that was buried. It was
like three or four clicks
to get to shut down.
So now that's quite a
bit easier as well. Well,
a couple of other things
added there, a mobility center,
which is what windows X
To bring up is now
their PowerShell is in there
too. Yep. Instead of which
is actually a change from
command prompt. I don't know
if that's a pretty subtle
one, but someone, some people
might care, command prompt used
to show up there now
PowerShell shows up there. Yeah.
Which is still, you know,
you can still run some
of the command part and
then also network connection. So
it's really the power users.
Yeah. And so I think
that's between that and the
overlay of the start page
over a, or start screen
over your desktop background. I
think that really helps a
lot with the context switching,
not everybody's going to like
it, you know, cause it
is a change from what
we have before, but I
think it makes a big
difference. Wait, you glossed over
that one a little bit,
having the background of the
start menu be the same
as your Wallpaper. Yeah. So
this is what I was
mentioning before, where that really
gets rid of that context,
which where I've got this
kind of Spacey wallpaper background
that spans my, my two
screens here and I have
my start screen set up
so that it uses that
same background. So when I
hit the windows key and
swap between those it overlays
desktop background, it like, it
goes out a little bit
and overlays it with the
normal start screen tiles. And
so it doesn't give me
that jarring context switch that
so many people have talked
about with windows eight. Yeah.
That makes a huge difference.
I'll tell you this and
you know, tell, go tell
the bosses or whoever you
can tell everyone, everyone, 100%
of people that I have
showed that feature to have
said that they wished that
was the default. Yeah. So
I am really crossing my
fingers that this be, this
is the default for when
this ships cause I mean,
even I show it to
my wife and she's like,
Oh, like literally it was
a moment that they people
think that, that, you know,
pushing the start button on
the keyboard or the start
button on the screen launches
you into this entirely new
universe. Right. And that simple
thing of changing the color
to their background wallpaper makes
everyone go, Oh, okay. The
buttons are bigger and they
feel the screen. So it
ties them together, you know,
quite a bit better. Right?
Yes. Please tell the buses.
Yeah. There's some other stuff
like, like I just sort
of stumbled across this one
day where you've you still
have the 30 inch screens,
right? Yeah. I've got a
30 and two 24. So
if you, if you mouse
into the corner to, to
pull up the charms bar,
instead of using the hot
key, the charms now show
up closer to where the
corner where you most into.
Right. Right. Actually. Yeah. So
I've got two machines in
front of me. One's eight
one's eight one on the
eight Oh one. The charms
are always centered vertically, which
means I got to go
to the corner and then
go way up like seven
inches, 10 inches away. Yeah.
Which actually, cause when you
think about how you move
a mouse, it's not a
straight line. It's almost always
an elliptical motion when you
move a mouse. So you
would get halfway up there
and it would dismiss the
charms bar or something like
that because you would get
out of the area. Right.
So this just makes that
I think a lot more
usable as well. And I
stumbled across that and I
was like, Oh, well duh,
of course that's how I
would want it to work.
Right. Yeah, Yeah. Right. Little
refinements like that. Yeah. And
I think those all, and
when you add those to
the idea that you can
now boot directly to the
desktop, if you want, which
is another big thing for
a lot of especially developers
and power users, I think
all those things together really
help smooth, you know, the
transition into this, The one
on the booting to the
desktop is a little hard
to find. You have to
right. Click on the task
bar and hit. Yeah. Yeah.
I mean, I don't think
we would want everybody and
their brother to do that.
It's one of those things
that if you, if you
know, it's going to make
sense for you, then do
it. But I mean, ultimately
you want app developers to
be able to have their
apps visible to people when
they turn on the machine.
Right. I mean, as an
app developer, you want people
to use your apps. And
if everybody booted to the
desktop, nobody would see those
apps. Right. So it would
make it much harder for
people to make money developing
those. So I think that,
you know, the boot to
the desktop thing is just
for the people who know
that that's going to make
them more efficient, but the
default is always going right
to the start screen. Okay.
That makes sense. The other
thing that this started screening,
I'm not, I'm kind of
up and down about this
is that the search is
different. So when you hit
the windows key and start
typing and then hit enter,
it searches everything. And by
everything, it searches the internet
and it's, or just your
phone, Peter. Right? So the
there's a good session on
build about why search was
changed to be this way.
But for the most part,
it just, it was a
lesson learned from windows eight
where folks just found search
to be non discoverable, right.
Having it over there in
the charms bar when search
was considered such an essential
function was just really difficult
for most people to figure
out. And so on the
start screen, and this is,
this is to me just
a little bit confusing, just
like what you're talking about
when on the start screen,
when you do search through
the charms bar, you get
that sort of global search.
But if you go down
to the all apps, which
is, you know, either swipe
up on a touch screen
or a hover over and
click the little down arrow
on the bottom, left on
a, on a mouse space
system, there is, if I
remember correctly in, in page
search there that is searching
just your apps, right? And
so this is consistent with
how all the other windows
apps work, where we've, we've
backed off from the idea
that all your search must
be in the charms bar.
And instead said, you know,
what's better for the users
is to have search on
the apps canvas and then
have this other global search,
which is now, now brings
you to that kind of
Bing search, which has the,
you know, the hero pages
for big searches. And, you
know, I really it's, it's
quite an interesting search experience
for that, but it's not
searching, you know, just like
your apps or just inside
a particular app. Okay. But
one of the things that
I'm not able to find
now though, is how to
search within an app. Like
if I'm in Netflix and
I go to search, I
want to search Netflix. Yeah.
It's searching the universe and
I'm not interested in searching
the universe. So I think
for eight one, a lot
of developers are going to
go back and put the
search bars are, or, you
know, the search boxes in
their apps. And Netflix would
probably be one of those.
And, and quite honestly, so
we have this process called
AFT at fast track, which
does reviews of apps. Right.
And part of that review,
like we always had customers
that came to us and
said, I want search on
the screen. But the AFT
review said, no, thou shalt
not have search on the
screen because that's not part
of the standard. So most
of these people wanted to
do it that way, but
just, it wasn't something that,
that fit the windows eight
design style. And so for
them to be able to
go back and do it
now, I think there'll be
like, ah, finally, this is
what we want. Okay. So
it's okay to do that
now. Like it seems like
with design guidelines, there's all
these, there's all these rules.
Some of them are spoken.
Some of them are unspoken.
It's okay to have search
boxes. Now It's actually encouraged
to have search boxes now.
And there are a number
of other, I spoke a
little bit about this at
build. I mean, there are
a number of other things
that we've changed. And quite
honestly, we relaxed on where
I, a lot of it
is. If you're an app
developer, you have an established
brand, you know, don't let
us get in the way
of you bringing your brand
forward. I mean, needed to
do what's right for the
users and do what's right
for your brand. And then
all the rest of it
is just kind of making
sure that you generally fit
windows. Like, like we also
encourage now having all of
the necessary commands for your
app on the canvas, as
opposed to hidden in an
app bar. Right. So if
you're, if you're doing something
on the screen where you're
going to always want to
say, like, think about the
mail client, you're going to
want to send an email
or something. Right. It'd be
kind of dumb to have
to flick up on the
app bar and then hit
send to do that. I
mean, so the send button
is directly on the case,
Hide stuff. That's totally essential,
important stuff to keep around.
Yeah. So we've updated a
lot of that and it's
all just based on how
people were using a windows
and then feedback that we
got from all the different
partners. Right. So I think
it's, you might look at
it as sort of backpedaling
a bit, but I'm really
happy that, that we went
and did that because you
could sort of stick to
like kind of a crappy
approach or you can adjust
it and do what people
are really asking you to
do and, and make everything
better. Yeah. Yeah. If back
peddling is making a better,
I don't care backpedal all
you want. Yeah. Partly I'm
concerned. Most people think of
it as being tablet focused.
I'm starting, I'm starting now
after having used windows eight
for some months to get
used to switching back and
forth. And when, when to
do things in the desktop
and one things to do
in video and full screen,
like I was on the
plane yesterday and because the
8.1 preview includes outlook on
my, on my RT, on
my surface RT, which really
I didn't use before. Yeah,
no, it has outlook. I
use it more often. And
when I was ended up
doing was, I was, I
had half the screen, a
movie and the other half
was out. Yep. And it's
funny, it reminds me of
these window managers that I
used in kind of the
Linux world where you didn't
think about resizing windows, they
just resize themselves. Like I'm
looking at my screen right
now. I'm in desktop. I've
got you in Skype, desktop,
the task manager, I've got
a browser, I've got outlook.
I've got an agenda about
what we're going to talk
about today, but I'm having
to move around and manage
all of those. I wonder
if windows is moving towards
a world where there's less
window resizing. Well, if so
guys like you and me
on the desktop, I think,
you know, especially with multiple
screens here and stuff are
still going to do better
with individual windows that you
can change, not just their
horizontal size, but their vertical
size and, and stuff. So
I still rely on that
a lot, but you've been
tech support for relatives before.
Right. You know, most relatives
like run apps, full screen
all the time on their
desktop. Yeah. That's true actually.
And if it's not visible,
they assume it's not there.
Like my dad used to
open new instances of like
word every single time that
he wanted to get to
it. Cause he didn't realize
it was down in the
task bar. Right. It's like
one of those kind of
strange things. So if you
think, you know, for the
average person using a computer,
they don't want to do
window management. They just want
to work in their app.
Right. And then when you
combine that with the idea
that window management with touch,
I mean, I assume you've
tried to use a touch
screen with regular, like window
management before I'd like to
resize windows and stuff. Now
it's not exactly friendly. I,
you know, it's a, it's
a bit of a pain
in the butt. So having
this simplified version where it's
multiple side-by-side window panes, I
think makes much more sense
for both of those use
cases. So where I've specifically
have used it, which I
think is great on, on
something like the tablet is
when you open a link
from your email client and
then it just, you know,
makes a screen half the
size and then opens up
by you over on the
right with the link loaded
in it. And so I
think that was much better
than the approach we had
before with the 320 pixel
wide snapped view. And then
you had the rest of
the screen and those are
the only two options. Hmm.
Yeah. I, I'm starting to
realize that there are, there
are certain things, I don't
think windows 8.1 kind of
nails it, but it's, it's
close in the idea that,
you know, sometimes I just
want to see this and
then I want the screen
to split. And then when
I close it, I want
it to go back the
way it was. And that
doesn't require me. Right. Clicking,
opening a new windows, resizing,
et cetera, et cetera. You
know what I mean? Yeah.
Yeah. And again, for power
users and folks like us,
right. I, you still have
all the normal window management
stuff that you can do.
And on my desktop, that's
just how I run all
the time. And then on
my laptop, I go half
and half. Sometimes I do
one. Sometimes I do the
other, I've got three monitors.
And one of the things
that used to suck about
windows eight was that I
would put a full screen,
something like Hulu or Netflix
over on one monitor and
then I'd be doing some
other stuff. And then I,
I like bump the start
button or I'd go and
launch something and then it
would disappear. Yeah. Yeah. That
totally sucks. Yeah. So I
mean, you can have the
apps on different screens. If
I remember correctly here, I
haven't done it here lately
on this, but you can
have the apps on different
screens. Right. And you can
also have the task bar
properly span, both screens if
you have desktop going across
the whole way. But I
think probably the most important
thing of all that is
are both of your screens
the same make and model
or all three of your
screens, Dell, but they're two
years apart. Right. But they
probably all have the same
DPI now I think so.
Yeah. Like same resolution and
same size roughly. Yeah. Ballpark.
Sure. Right. So, but that's
not always the case. Like
some people will have a
big, main screen and then
they'll have like a 27
inch screen on the other
side. But that 27 inch
screen will be only 1920
by 10 80 or something.
So it has different DPI
from the main screen that
the person's working in. And
so now in, in eight
one you have per screen
DPI settings where the windows
can be aware that the
DPI for each different display
that you have is different
and can adjust the size
of the content on there
appropriately where before it was
a, you know, one DPI
across everything. And for those
of us who talk a
lot, like you go and
present at an event. And
if you're on something like
a surface pro, which has,
is going to run at
like one 25 or one
50%, whatever that number is
because you're not going, gonna
use a surface pro at
1920 by 10 80 natively
because everything on it is
super tiny. But when you
project that stuff to a
screen, you probably do want
it to use the full
1920 by 10 80 and
use every pixel of that
and not be scaled. So
now those are two different
screens. You can have separate
DPIs. Does that work as
you move a window between
two screens? Like does, if
I w if it's, if
it's straddling half and half
Yep. What happens? So that's
a little funky, actually, the
minute that the, that the
window goes more than halfway
onto one of the screens,
it scales it using that
DPI setting. So you'll see
this like weird thing we
use, you pull it halfway
across the screen, and then
the minute you get over
that, you'll see it either
bump up or bump down
in size and then move
over. So it's kind of
a funky effect, but once
you realize what's happening, it
makes perfect sense. Interesting saying,
Hey, I'm going to have
to get an extra monitor
to try that out. I
don't know. That's a good
question. I do have my
Lenovo carbon touch that has
a, a docking station. Yeah.
I bet you that. Yeah.
That'll actually work. Yeah. Laptops
are a perfect case for
this where they're almost always
a higher DPI on the
screen versus whatever external display
you might hook up to
it. I'm actually plugging that
in right now. I'm gonna
find out what this looks
like. This is good information.
Okay. That's cool. Now I've
got a Fitbit flex on
my wrist. It's Bluetooth for
it's like super low power.
And I knew that Bluetooth
four was low power, but
I didn't know that there's
some features about it. Like
You don't really have to
pair with it. Yeah, Yeah,
no, it just knows that
you care and you want
a pair. Yeah. I know.
I don't get super deep
into that, but I do
know that it's much easier
to, you know, pair things
like 10 years ago or
whenever it was, it seems
like 10 years ago when
Bluetooth stuff first came out,
I'm sure you remember. It
was like pairing something was
always agonizing. Like you would
spend 10 minutes trying to
pair just like a headset
to your phone or something
like that. And they realize
you look kind of dumb
with the headset anyway, but
it was always like this
agonizing thing. So I know
Bluetooth four has features to
make that easier, but then
also has with the low
energy profile that gives you,
you know, better, better energy
usage and how it throttles
the signals going across and
how you can pair with
more than one thing. So
there's a lot of stuff
there and what's really kind
of cool about that is
that's all built into the
API APIs for eight one.
So there is a wind
RT, Bluetooth API, which you,
you went over and visited
Chris at build, right. He
had his agent, Chris Walker
from secret labs. I'm actually
speaking with him at a
monkey space actually, by the
time this is published, we
will have talked to had
our talk. Excellent. All right.
So he had his agent
smartwatch on there, which if
people aren't familiar with it,
it's very cool. It runs.net
microphone work. It has Bluetooth
built into it and stuff.
And he had a demo
of communicating to that watch
from windows eight, one just
from a regular C-sharp and
XAML app. Right. Which I
think is really great now
that we, we can use
Bluetooth that way and communicate
with these other devices just
from managed code or, or,
or from HTML and JavaScript
or whatever you would like.
Yeah. I've actually done some
work talking to USB stuff.
I tried talking to a
USB serial port thing. If
you're talking to us space
orb, I tried talking to
blood sugar meters, and the
only game in town was
this crappy library called USB
sharp. And it was so
low level. I mean, it
was just like pulling teeth
and it just made me
hate USB. Like if you're
not doing USB code in
C plus, plus, then it's
just over for you. Yeah.
And eight one also adds
in USB APIs, but they're
so on the, the main
USB API, it's when USB.
So it's important to know
that that's not like there
are a lot of hobby
things that use serial over
USB. Like they'll open up
a virtual comm port on
your machine and, and stuff.
And I always feel like
I've been thrown back 20
years whenever I see something
crack open, like calms six
on my machine. Right. So
it just, it just seems
kind of nuts. So it's
not that kind of communication,
but anything which can use
either when USB driver or
show up as a human
interface device, you know, hid
those APIs are also now
part of when our T
okay. So People use the
serial port ones though, because
there's nothing better. Is this
better as a real easy
it's, it's super easy to
communicate over serial like doing
when USB stuff requires a
little bit more work. And
so, you know, the, the
product team's aware of this,
and they're looking at it
to see what they'll do
longterm. I think the fact
that, you know, cereal over
USB is used so heavily,
especially in the, the, the
hobby communities was somewhat surprising
to them because it seems
like such an ancient technology
that nobody would use anymore.
Yeah, exactly. This is cool.
So being able to plug
hardware in is important to
me, like I mentioned, the
blood sugar meters, we're always
trying to figure out ways
to talk to these, these
USB APIs. The other thing
that was cool at build
was next to Chris Walker
from secret labs was a,
all the three D printers.
People were going nuts, printing
out stuff. Yeah. Yeah. And
they were everywhere. You know,
you couldn't, you, you literally
could not walk around there
without bumping into a three
D printer someplace. And the
main reason for that is
we've added in three D
printer support to windows eight
one. You want to like,
what does that mean? Cause
if, if anybody who's familiar
with three D printing knows
that the pipeline is usually,
you know, design a model,
some sort of CAD software,
and then run it through
like a slicing program, which
generates the different layers that
are going to be printed
out. And then there's some
sort of communication to a
printer and it's either a
USB connection or save this
G code off to a,
you know, a, a USB
key or something, and then
go plug it directly into
the device or whatever. Right.
So there's built in support
for three D printing. Now
that's kind of, it's a
can actually, it's very highly
related and part of the
regular printing API APIs so
that somebody can use the
print charm. And if the
app supports three D models
and stuff, they'll be able
to just directly print to
these printers, which at first
you might think, well for
hobbyist guys that doesn't, what's
that getting them. And it's
probably not getting the hobby
guys a whole lot yet.
All right. But what it's
really doing is it's going
to make it so that
three D printers start becoming
much more consumer friendly and
also quite a bit cheaper.
So you remember back in
the day, regular printers, like
laser printers and stuff required
a lot of onboards smarts
to print. Like they had
all their own controllers and
they had, you know, their
own CPS and everything inside
there. And then eventually we
came up with this idea.
I think we call it,
was it the wind wind
print or wind printer or
something like that, where the
printers no longer had the
logic on the printer. It
was using stuff inside the
PC. And that was very
controversial at the time because
people saw it as using
more resources on the PC,
but it made it so
you can have like $30
printers. Right. Because they just,
yeah. And so Remember waiting,
you know, 15 minutes for
the, the printer's processor to
like orient the page or
create the page and think
about it. And we would
have times where you'd print
six pages and one of
them would, would run out
of memory. So then you'd
only get a few of
the pages printed. Yeah. Yeah.
And, but what, so, and
then once the, the, you
know, the OEMs and the,
the hardware guys caught up
with what they actually needed
to put in these printers
to make them work well,
it, it became a non
issue, but so I, I
can see us doing a
similar thing with three D
printing where right now the
cheapest consumer friendly three D
printer is, is like $1,300.
Right. And that's, you can
get that at staples. There's
a, what's called Cubify three
D printer. And it's made
to be very, very consumer
friendly now, for those that
want to build them themselves
and everything, you can do
it for three, $400. Right.
But the being able to
have these consumer facing printers
and these consumer ready printers
drop in price because they're
selling more of them. And
because they have to have
less logic inside is going
to make three D printing,
much more reasonable for us
to do, to like say,
buy three D printers. So
our kids can create action
figures and stuff. Right. And
do their crafts. Like if
you need to build a
DNA model for, you know,
for your science class, when
you're in middle school, you
don't have to go to
the craft store and buy,
you know, 30, 30 foam
balls to do it. You
can print out a, you
know, you can design the
model in 3d and print
out that three D model
directly there. Yeah. Somebody said
that the number one market
for three D printers is
replacing battery doors on stuff
where battery doors have fallen
off. I look forward to
someone making a website that
has nothing for nothing but
me typing in what I've
lost, the battery door four,
and then three D printing
thing to let me print
that battery door out. Sure.
And people make all sorts
of replacements or broken parts
and stuff like that. And
it's, it's one of those
things where it's just starting,
you know, the big question
right now, everybody says, well,
what would I use that
for? And if you remember,
people used to ask the
same things about computers, it's
like, well, what would I
use that computer for? You
know, why do I need
a computer? It was a
question at one point, right?
So it's going to be,
I think the same thing
here where eventually it's just
going to become an essential
piece of kit and people's
houses. Now, I actually used
a three D printer in
some of the work I
did for the keynote at
build on day two. Nobody
can necessarily tell it was
three D printed, but I'll
put together something about that
maybe next week or something
like that. That explains where
I use three D printing
just as part of my
job. Yeah. I'd like to
be able to see it
where you can't tell that
something is three D printed.
Like I kind of, I
kind of broke the MakerBot
guy a little bit where
I was like, well, this
is cute. If I want
to make little figurines that
are all red. Right. You
know, but then you go
to look at some of
the other three D printers
and they had some, like,
I think war hammer figurines,
or some kind of gaming
figurines. And I could not
tell without really looking clothes
that these were not, I
don't know if they painted
them or they used multicolor
techniques, but it's getting close.
So there are three main
types or probably four, but
there are three main types
of three D printers. The
consumer ones use this fused
deposition approach, which is, they
basically spit out a stream
of molten plastic and build
up a model from that.
And that's the one where
you can usually see the
layers. And that's where all
the consumer oriented ones are.
They use a big, long
filament of plastic and they
spit that out through a
hot nozzle. Right. But there's
another kind, and these are
huge. They're like, you know,
the size of Xerox copy
center type things, where they
have a layer of powder
and then they use something
that looks like an inkjet
that goes over it and
sprays a colored fusing material,
some sort of an adhesive
and builds it up layer
by layer that way. And
what you get out of
that is a sort of,
you still end up with
kind of a powdery texture.
Like it's like, you can
tell it was built up
from some sort of powder,
but you don't see individual
layers and you can have
any number of different colors
built into that. So that's
where some of those models
that you saw, which looked
like there are multiple colors
and they were huge and
lots of different parts. So
that's another big one that
would be nice to see
those become more consumer friendly,
but you know, you have
to replace powder cartridges and
all sorts of things. So
there's more going on there.
And then the third one
is the liquid resin where
they use a laser to
harden layers of liquid resin.
And that's the one where
I've seen you get some
of the best results in
terms of, of like fidelity
and resolution. But they're, they're,
they're really tiny. And they
take a very long time
and you have to have
a VAT of liquid resin,
which that's not kid friendly.
Right. Well, I think it
needs to get to the
point where it's like a
laser printer. I don't want,
I mean, I think all
of these things you're describing
are cool and interesting, but
there's no way that it's
going to pop in. And
Joe public is going to
buy one of these unless
it's at staples and it's
a hundred bucks and the
ink just works. Yeah. So
that first one that I
mentioned, the cute, the Cubify
one is at staples, which
is pretty cool. It's not
a hundred bucks, but what
I do like is they've
made it so that the
filament cartridges, you, you basically,
you plug them in, they
have a little chip inside
them that knows what color
it is and how much
filament is left. And it'll
warn you if there's not
enough filament left or anything
like that. So it does
really bridge that gap and
make things much more consumer
friendly. That's cool. And then
if I just plug it
in and I don't need
any extra drivers and certainly
not multiple steps, like I
want to plug it in,
have it figured the drivers
out, get them from wherever
it needs to get them,
and then download the model
of whatever I want, you
know, the Lego man leg
or whatever, pay somebody 99 cents
and then print it. And
it works. That's how it's
going to work. I mean,
hobby guys, like to be
able to tweak all the
settings to get the best
possible print, but you know,
Joe consumer just wants to
hit print and have a
model come out. So right.
And, and I don't know,
I just actually on my
inkjet printer, I've got an
HP all in one, I
just said, align heads, right?
Like that's, that's the that's
as far as I'm concerned,
that's how you tweak the
thing you go and you
do a test print. I'll
tell you which one went
better. I'm sure someone will
make it. So it'll print
out three super Mario guys
and I'll tell him which
one looks best. And then
it'll know that that's the
one that's going to happen.
Exactly. And for the hobby
folks that are listening on
this. So, you know, understand
that this is completely optional.
This is just to make
three D printing, more mainstream
and more friendly for consumers.
And then everybody who does
want to do that little
bit of tweaking or builds
a rep wraps themselves. I
mean, you can continue to
do that. No problems at
all. But I think the
idea of having this in
a lot more consumers' hands
will make it much more,
much more friendly. And then
also just much. Yeah, definitely.
Cool. Okay. Well, when I'm,
what am I going to
get this? I've got eight
one preview. Am I going
to have to torch my
machine to get the final
version on? No. As I
understand that you will be
upgrade from a one preview
to the final and then,
you know, everybody else will
have it just as something
through the windows store. So
when this becomes available to
the public at general availability,
that which will be later
this year, they'll just go
into the windows store and
they'll be able to upgrade
or they'll see apps, which
say they require eight one
and they'll be prompted to
upgrade. And it's a free
process it's done through the
store. There's no, you don't
have to swap 30 floppies
to do it or anything
like that. Right. It's it's
pretty painless. That's cool. Okay.
So this sounds like you
said later this year, so
that means before Christmas, I
will have this on my
machine, in my wife's machine.
We'll just get a notification
that it's here. Yeah. And
then if developers who want
to play with it, now
it is available on, you
know what? I don't have
the link you have to
put in windows.com. Thank you.
Yes. Thank you. What that,
does it install something on
your machine? Like an MSI,
which then after you reboot
makes it, so the store
link for upgrading to windows
eight, one is now is
available. So you are going
to go through the same
general process that people are
at the end of the
year. Very cool. Okay. That's
good. Yeah. I know that
there's, there was some talk
about whether some machines get
torched or not, but like
on the windows are on
the surface RT. It wasn't
a big deal. I did
lose my apps, but then
it brought them back down
automatically from the, from the,
the store. So I didn't
really lose anything. Yeah. So
it remembered which apps I
had installed, but it didn't
have the apps themselves there.
And, Oh, that's, that's another
thing. That's an innate one
is really nice. Is apps
will auto update from the
store like that. You don't
have to go into the
store and manually say, I
want to update these five
apps. Cause nobody, nobody did
that. So part of enabling
that also makes it, so
when your apps come down
from the upgrade, they just
automatically update. Sounds like as
an app developer, make sure
you don't screw up. The
update is going to be
very important of course. But
then on the plus side,
your users will actually have
the updates. Everyone's guaranteed to
get the updates. And then
now let me, let me
do a plug here. So
if you are interested in,
in coding for windows eight,
I have a book. Of
course there are lots of
good books out there, but
I also have mine. If
you go to Bitly slash
peak windows book, it'll show
up there. That's remaining. Okay.
I'll put that Bitly slash
Pete windows book in the
show notes as well. Thanks
for talking to me. Cool.
Thanks, Scott. This has been
another episode of Hanselminutes and
we'll see you again next
week.